---
date: 2021-01-08 06:20:35 +0300
title: 1-on-1 Coaching
subtitle: Meet at a regular cadence to help build acceptance and control over chronic illness
image: '/images/post-6.jpg'
---

## What this is

You and me in a series of video calls talking about you and your health. We can cover any number of topics depending on your needs. I see the topics that I work with clients on in two primary baskets: 

* First we have things that are very **practical in nature**. Seeking diagnosis, understanding an illness, navigating the system, problem solving, skill building, symptom tracking, motivation, boundaries, pacing, dealing with family/friends/medical professionals. This list has no end, but at a high level, it's about the practicalities of being sick. Being sick **is a skill** and as with most skills, it requires practice and it helps to have a mentor.
* The other basket is more ephemeral. It's about **finding well-being inside of an envelope of illness**. I'm not here to cure you, that's your doctors' jobs. But I am telling you, you can live your life with more grace, love, and beauty than any able-bodied person you know. In this realm we work with acceptance, emotional healing, grief, power, fear, love, loss, spirituality. At certain points in our lives, it's more helpful to focus on these types of things as opposed to practical solutions to problems. In a broken medical system, practical solutions sometimes only get us so far.


## What this isn't

I do not provide medical advice, diagnoses, cures, treatments, or therapy. I have a long history of dealing with my own severe illnesses and I am trained to work as a "mental health coach," which can look similar to therapy but does not involve the same training.

Many "coaching" businesses are built from a model that I find largely unethical. Coaches often are selling you on themselves and their lifestyle and the resulting promise is that if you hire them you can also begin to live the way they do. There's big talk about "trauma resolution," "sex empowerment," and "womb healing." I don't think these are bad things but I do think that generic "therapy speak" is getting weaponized against consumers. I believe you can tell what a coach is selling by looking at their photographs and their social media presence. I am not selling some vision of spirituality. My spirituality and my vision are rooted firmly in the practical.

I don't want my clients to strive to live the way that I do. I am not a living example. I am a person who has walked a very specific path and learned some specific things. You aren't here to walk my path. I am here to help you walk (or roll on) your own. 


## Model & Pricing

| **Offering**   | **Time**       | **Price** |
|============|============|=======|
| Intro Call | 10 minutes | Free  |
| Sample Session | 50 minutes | $150-$250 sliding scale* |
| 10 session foundation package | 50 minutes each, every week or every other | $1,500-$2,500 sliding scale* |
| Add-on session | 50 minutes | $150-$250 sliding scale* |

*Sliding scale is based on self-reported income

**Intro call?** A quick phone call where we can check in about wants, needs, and goals. This is a very brief way to help us determine if we want to work together. There is no charge for this. This is not a sales call.

**Sample session?** This is to give people a taste of what working together might be like. A client might walk away with a couple new ideas or challenges to think about, but this is not meant to be enough space to build robust change into one's life, it's simply to help a client confirm if they want to commit to the next 10 sessions. Again, this is not a sales call. 

**Package deals?** In my experience, the package system is a way to build a commitment and a timeline. I ask that after our sample session that clients commit to at least 10 sessions. This is to help set realistic expectations, and also to provide a fixed container that we are going to be working in. 

While this is not therapy, just like therapy we cannot expect to produce meaningful change over the course of just 2 sessions. We need more time and space. Unlike therapy, it is helpful for clients to understand that our sessions are coming to a close. That deadline gives a sense of a finish line... by this point in our sessions we are ideally finding new perspectives, habits, and skills.

While in this container you will be able to email me with basic questions etc. 

**Add-on sessions?** Once people have gone through the 10 foundation sessions they can start scheduling add-on sessions. If a client feels that meeting once more, 10 more times, or even indefinitely will be useful to them, that's what this is for. If we are doing ongoing sessions you will be able to email me with basic questions.

















