---
date: 2022-11-15
title: Revamping the CEESV Web Portal for Enhanced Efficiency and User Experience
subtitle: Business Analysis
image: '/images/ceesv-dalle.png'
---
### Project Title: Revamping the CEESV Web Portal for Enhanced Efficiency and User Experience

#### Problem
La Centrale d'Encaissement des Etablissements Sanitaires Vaudois (CEESV), responsible for handling invoices between healthcare providers and insurances, faced significant challenges with its aging Web Portal. Despite its critical role in managing over 300,000 invoices yearly, the platform struggled with a discrepancy between the collaborators’ needs and the available features. The outdated technology stack, inefficient business processes, and an interface that no longer met user requirements needed a comprehensive revamp of the system.

#### Solution
As a Business Analyst, I coordinated the initiative of transforming the CEESV Web Portal, focusing on user-centricity and efficiency. The project involved the following series of meticulously planned steps:

1. **User Experience Revamp**: Utilizing mockups and clickable prototypes, we redesigned the user experience of the Web App. We introduced standardized front-end components to the user interface, ensuring a more intuitive and user-friendly environment.

2. **Business Process Automation**: We analyzed and re-engineered business processes to minimize repetitive tasks and align the system with the actual user requirements. This strategic automation significantly reduced time and effort spent on low-value activities.

3. **Technology Stack Upgrade**: Acknowledging the limitations of the outdated technology stack, we upgraded the system to comply with the most recent industry standards, ensuring robust performance, security, and scalability.

#### Tools Used
1. **Jira**: Employed for project management, tracking progress, and ensuring transparent communication among all project stakeholders. Jira was instrumental in managing the development sprints, documenting requirements, and tracking issues and resolutions throughout the project lifecycle.

2. **Confluence**: Served as the central repository for all project documentation, including requirements, design specifications, and user guides. Confluence facilitated effective knowledge sharing and collaboration among the project team.

3. **Slack**: Used as the primary communication platform, Slack enabled real-time discussions, quick resolution of queries, and seamless collaboration among the team members, ensuring that everyone was aligned and informed throughout the project.

#### Outcome
The revamped CEESV Web Portal marked a significant milestone in improving operational efficiency and user satisfaction. By closely involving stakeholders in each iteration and focusing on user-centric design and process automation, the project delivered a modern, efficient, and user-friendly solution. The outcome was not just a technologically advanced platform but also a testament to the positive impact on the collaborators’ day-to-day tasks, reflected in their increased efficiency and the visible satisfaction upon the deployment of the new solution. This transformation not only streamlined the invoice handling process but also set a benchmark for future digital initiatives within the healthcare sector.