---
date: 2023-01-10 07:30:35 +0300
title: Automating Social Media Engagement for a Pharmaceutical Company
subtitle: Digital Marketing
image: '/images/feedly-zapier-bot.png'
---

### Automating Social Media Engagement for a Pharmaceutical Company

#### Problem Statement
A growing pharmaceutical company was seeking to amplify its social media presence but faced challenges in consistently publishing timely, relevant, and platform-optimized content. The manual process of content curation, customization, and posting was resource-intensive and lacked the necessary promptness and platform-specific adaptation.

#### Solution
To address these challenges, a social media bot that automated the process of content curation, posting, and optimization was designed and implemented. The solution involved:

1. **Content Curation**: Leveraging Feedly AI, the solution continuously monitors and aggregates trending and pertinent articles from diverse sources, ensuring a steady stream of quality content.
   
2. **Automated Posting**: Through Zapier's powerful automation, the bot instantly creates posts whenever a selected article is added to a designated Feedly board. These posts include captivating images from the articles and concise summaries, enhancing visual appeal and engagement.

3. **Content Optimization with ChatGPT**: Recognizing the nuances of different social media platforms, ChatGPT is integrated to refine the text summaries further. This AI model adeptly corrects texts, tailors the tone and style for platforms like Instagram and LinkedIn, and ensures that the content resonates well with the target audience, enhancing engagement and relevance.

#### Tools Used

- **Feedly**: For real-time monitoring and aggregation of industry-relevant content.
- **Zapier**: To seamlessly connect Feedly with social media platforms, automating the content posting process.
- **ChatGPT**: For intelligent text correction, summarization, and platform-specific content adaptation, ensuring high-quality, engaging posts.

#### Outcome

The implementation of this automated social media bot transformed the company's digital engagement strategy:

- **Streamlined Operations**: The automation significantly reduced the time and resources spent on social media management, allowing the team to focus on strategic initiatives.
- **Elevated Content Quality**: Integration with ChatGPT ensured that each post was not only grammatically impeccable but also fine-tuned for specific social media platforms, resulting in higher engagement rates.
- **Consistent and Timely Online Presence**: The company's social media channels witnessed a surge in activity, engagement, and follower growth, reinforcing its position as a thought leader in the pharmaceutical sector.

Through this project, strategic automation and AI integration demonstrated that they can revolutionize social media management, driving operational efficiency and significantly enhancing online engagement and brand presence.