---
date:   2023-05-02
title:  "How Yoga Has Made Me a Better Human Being"
description: >-
   Yoga has sparked a profound journey of self-discovery and healing for me. It has also inspired me to embrace and share my life lessons with everyone I meet.
tags:   [travel, life, story]
image:  '/images/post-4.jpg'
---

Yoga, derived from the Sanskrit word *yuj* which means ‘to join’, represents the union of the mind, body and spirit.

In her book "How to do the Work," Nicole LePera, famously known as the Holistic Psychologist on Instagram, points out that traditional Western medicine has long treated the mind and body as separate entities. The mind was the realm of psychologists and psychiatrists, while other branches of medicine concentrated on the body. It is only recently that treatments have begun to address both at the same time.

On the other hand, indigenous and Eastern cultures have consistently recognized and respected the connection between the mind, body, and spirit. While mainstream Western medicine often dismissed this connection as "unscientific".

In April 2022, feeling burned out from my previous job and uncertain about my next steps, I decided to pursue a lifelong aspiration of mine - a Yoga Teacher Training.

I completed my first 200-hour yoga teacher training at the Mystical Yoga Farm with the School Yoga Institute, and the journey was nothing short of transformative.

This training was more than just mastering asanas or understanding yoga philosophies.It was a profound journey of self-discovery and healing. Surrounded by a nurturing environment at the Mystical Yoga Farm, I found myself in a space where every chant, every ceremony, and every cacao session was a step towards deeper self-understanding.

One of the most beautiful aspects of this experience was the strong sense of community. I met  incredible souls, each enriching the experience in their unique way. We bonded over yoga sessions, dances, temazcales (sweat lodge ceremonies), lake swims, and countless cuddle puddles. These moments fostered relationships that transcended typical friendship boundaries, forming a family connected by a shared journey of growth and healing.

Our shared experience at the farm demonstrated the power of collective energy for healing and transformation. Each activity was part of a broader process that gradually helped me grow and heal. We established a safe environment where everyone could freely express themselves, reminding us of life’s true essence: love.

I firmly believe that intentional communities, such as the one that I lived in, are where our future visionaries will emerge. My one-month stay in this community profoundly influenced my outlook on life and society. The values of mindfulness, compassion, and unity that I learned extend beyond the yoga mat to all aspects of life.

As I step into the role of a yoga teacher, my aim is to embody and share these values. It’s not just about being able to teach Hatha and Vinyasa classes this summer, but also about living a life that reflects the profound lessons learned through this training.